Dynamic Programming can be described as storing answers to various sub-problems to be used later whenever required to solve the main problem.

The two common dynamic programming approaches are:

- **Memoization**: Known as the “top-down” dynamic programming, usually the problem is solved in the direction of the main problem to the base cases.

- **Tabulation**: Known as the “bottom-up ” dynamic programming, usually the problem is solved in the direction of solving the base cases to the main problem

The base case does not always mean smaller input. It depends upon the implementation of the algorithm.

***A. Memoization Implementation*** -

Steps to memoize a recursive solution:

Any recursive solution to a problem can be memoized using these three steps:

1. Create a dp[n+1] array initialized to -1.

2. Whenever we want to find the answer of a particular value (say n), we first check whether the answer is already calculated using the dp array(i.e dp[n]!= -1 ). If yes, simply return the value from the dp array.

3. If not, then we are finding the answer for the given value for the first time, we will use the recursive relation as usual but before returning from the function, we will set dp[n] to the solution we get.

***B. Tabulation Implementation*** -

Tabulation is a ‘bottom-up’ approach where we start from the base case and reach the final answer that we want.

Steps to convert Recursive Solution to Tabulation one.
(Below steps is mentioned for fibonacci no.)

1. Declare a dp[] array of size n+1.

2. First initialize the base condition values, i.e i=0 and i=1 of the dp array as 0 and 1 respectively.

3. Set an iterative loop which traverses the array( from index 2 to n) and for every index set its value as dp[i-1] + dp[i-2]. 

***C. Space optimisation*** -

For any Problem, we try to implement following things:

1. Memoization - Observe Time and Space complexity

2. Tabulation - Observe Time and Space Complexity

3. Further Space optimisation.
